Blazor RC2 Updates 8.0 (#30576)
dotnet/AspNetCore.Docs: aspnetcore/blazor/components/render-modes.md

Every component in a Blazor Web App adopts a *render mode* to determine the hosting model that it uses, where it's rendered, and whether or not it's interactive.

> The following table shows the available render modes for rendering Razor components in a Blazor Web App. To apply a render mode to a component use the `@rendermode` directive on the component instance or in the component's Razor markup. Later in this article, examples are shown for each render mode scenario.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following table shows the available render modes for rendering Razor components in a Blazor Web App. To apply a render mode to a component use the `@rendermode` directive on the component instance or on the component definition. Later in this article, examples are shown for each render mode scenario.
```

```

```csharp
app.MapRazorComponents<App>()
    .AddInteractiveWebAssemblyRenderMode();
```

Example 3: The following `Program` file API adds services and configuration for enabling the interactive Server, WebAssembly, and automatic (Auto) render modes:

```csharp
builder.Services.AddRazorComponents()
    .AddInteractiveServerComponents()
    .AddInteractiveWebAssemblyComponents();
```

```csharp
app.MapRazorComponents<App>()
    .AddInteractiveServerRenderMode()
    .AddInteractiveWebAssemblyRenderMode();
```

Blazor uses the Blazor WebAssembly hosting model to download and execute components that use the WebAssembly render mode. A separate client project is required to set up Blazor WebAssembly hosting for these components. The client project contains the startup code for the Blazor WebAssembly host and sets up the .NET runtime for running in a browser. The Blazor Web App template adds this client project for you when you select the option to enable WebAssembly interactivity. Any components using the WebAssembly render mode should be built from the client project, so they get included in the downloaded app bundle.

## Apply a render mode to a component instance

> To apply a render mode to a component instance use the [`@rendermode` Razor directive](xref:mvc/views/razor#rendermode) where the component is used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To apply a render mode to a component instance use the [`@rendermode` Razor directive attribute](xref:mvc/views/razor#rendermode) where the component is used.
```

In the following example, the Server render mode is applied to the `Dialog` component instance:

```razor
<Dialog @rendermode="RenderMode.InteractiveServer" />
```

> [!NOTE]

> > The preceding syntax will be simplified at the release of .NET 8 in November to:

Reviewer: We could just tell people here that they can add the `using state` for `RenderMode` in their *_Imports.razor* to get the shorter syntax. That's what we plan to add in the Blazor Web App template.

If using the preceding component locally in a Blazor Web App, place the component in the client project's `Pages` folder. The client project is the solution's project with a name that ends in `.Client`. When the app is running, navigate to `/render-mode-3` in the browser's address bar.

> ## Automatic (Auto) render mode

Reviewer: Can we just stick with auto? I get that it probably violates some doc guideline of not abbreviating stuff, but it's what's shipping in the API.

app.MapRazorComponents<App>()
    .AddAdditionalAssemblies(typeof(DifferentAssemblyCounter).Assembly);
```

## Closure of circuits when there are no remaining interactive server components

[!INCLUDE[](~/blazor/includes/closure-of-circuits.md)]

## Custom shorthand render modes

> Whatever follows an `@rendermode` directive must be a valid Razor expression that would make sense as a method parameter in C#.

Reviewer: I think this text can be simplified: The `@rendermode` directive takes a single parameter that is a static instance of type `IComponentRenderMode`. The `@rendermode` directive attribute can take any render mode instance (static or not). You can supply that render mode instance however you'd like. We provide the `RenderMode` static class with some predefined render modes for convenience, but you can of course create your own.

Author: Yes, I like your (short and clear) lead in to the example. I think I can resolve this, and we'll take a look on the next commit.

> For example, consider how prerendering is disabled. The following expression isn't valid to pass to `@rendermode` because seeking to pass `InteractiveServer(prerender: false)` as a method parameter in `SomeMethod(InteractiveServer(prerender: false))` isn't a valid C# construct for a method parameter of `SomeMethod`.

Reviewer: This explanation isn't quite right: `InteractiveServer(prerender: false)` isn't valid because `InteractiveServer` isn't a method. It's a static property on the `RenderMode` static class.

Author: For ...

> isn't valid because InteractiveServer isn't a method

... and what Steve provided, I'll work on this for the next commit.

For reference, Steve's remarks were ...

> Whatever follows @rendermode has to be a valid expression that would make sense as a method parameter in other code.
>
> For example you can’t do “@rendermode InteractiveServer(prerender: false)” because the following code isn’t valid:
>
> SomeMethod(InteractiveServer(prerender: false));
> 
> What would be valid is:
> 
> SomeMethod (new InteractiveServerRenderMode(prerender: false));
>
> and hence the syntax is “@rendermode new InteractiveServerRenderMode(prerender: false)”
>
> You’ll be able to write “@rendermode InteractiveServer” because we’ll have a “using static” for Microsoft.AspNetCore.Components.Web.RenderMode, and RenderMode.InteractiveServer exists as a static property, and hence:
>
> SomeMethod (InteractiveServer);
>
> … is equivalent to SomeMethod(RenderMode.InteractiveServer), and that’s all valid.

<span aria-hidden="true">❌</span><span class="visually-hidden">Invalid:</span> `SomeMethod(InteractiveServer(prerender: false))`

However, the following C# expression passes a valid method parameter to `SomeMethod`.

<span aria-hidden="true">✔️</span><span class="visually-hidden">Valid:</span> `SomeMethod(new InteractiveServerRenderMode(prerender: false))`

> Therefore, disabling prerendering using the `@render-mode` directive requires the following example of an explicit Razor expression:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Therefore, disabling prerendering using the `@rendermode` directive requires the following example of an explicit Razor expression:
```
